---
layout: post
title: Iterating on a for loop with ++i or i++?
description: Iterating on a for loop with ++i or i++?
date: 2021-05-31 15:00
image: '/images/cppmeditations/cppmeditations.png'
tags: [cppmeditations]
featured: true
---

I see a lot of for loops around. and sometimes they are written like `for(int i = 0; i < 10; i++)` and sometimes they are written like `for(int i = 0; i < 10; ++i)`.

And for some reason, they were different in my mind. For some reason, I thought `++i` would increment at the beginning of the loop whereas `i++` would increment at the end, but upon closer inspection, the code behavior didn't reflect the assumptions I had. So why not do some investigation?

You may ask: "How do you investigate the differences?" And the answer for that is **Assembly!** Everything has to be translated to assembly at some point, so comparing assemblies will show you the real difference between implementations.

Consider the following code:

```
for(int i = 0; i < 10; i++) { }
```

Using [godbolt](https://godbolt.org/) we can take a look at how this is translated to assembly.

```
MyFunction():
    push    rbp
    mov     rbp, rsp
    mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], 0
    jmp     .L2
.L3:
    add     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], 1
.L2:
    cmp     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], 9
    jle     .L3
```

In a few words, here's what's happening: 
- The value 0 is attributed to a memory address.
- We then jump to `.L2`, where we compare the value with 9 (the final value for the loop)
- Then we have a Jump Less/Equal (JLE) to the section `.L3`. This means we jump to `.L3` if the value is less than or equal to 9.
- Finally, section `.L3` adds 1 to that memory address. 

Well, I just described what a loop is, but let's keep going.

**What happens when I change `i++` to `++i`?**

```
MyFunction():
    push    rbp
    mov     rbp, rsp
    mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], 0
    jmp     .L2
.L3:
    add     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], 1
.L2:
    cmp     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], 9
    jle     .L3
```

**Literally nothing!**

So that was very anti-climatic and a very complicated way to say that there is no difference at all between those two things.

**But hang on!** What if we achieve this same behaviour with a while loop? Like so:

```
int i;
while(i < 10) {
    i++;
}
```

We obtain the following assembly for the above code:


```
MyFunction():
    push    rbp
    mov     rbp, rsp
    jmp     .L2
.L3:
    add     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], 1
.L2:
    cmp     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], 9
    jle     .L3
    nop
```

**It's the same!** Were you expecting something different?
